+++
title = 'Meditations for Mortals: Day 9'
date = 2024-10-22
toc = false
description = "On the magic of completion"

[taxonomies]
tags = ["personal", "m4m", "reading"]
+++

> "Perfectionists love to begin new endeavors, because the moment of starting belongs to the world of limitlessness: for as long as you haven't done any work on a project, it's still possible to believe that the end result might match the ideal in your mind."

I've never really thought about it like that. There's something exciting and wonderful about the blue sky and green field of a new project. It really is limitless, bursting with possibility. I enjoy starting the project and even doing some work. However, when it gets to that last 20 percent, the final details that take the longest, I start to lose joy in the project and have to rely on discipline to complete it. I don't think all of that stems from perfectionism but rather novelty wearing off and the decreasing speed of progress. Like the Pareto principle, the first 80 percent makes the biggest impact and sometimes goes the fastest. The novelty wears off and progress becomes very incremental in the last phases of a project. That isn't to say that there isn't some amount of perfectionism at work though.

> "The trick to finishing things when the prospect seems overwhelming is simply to redefine what counts as finished. Instead of viewing completion of a project as something that happens only ocassionally, after days or weeks of work, think of your days as consisting in the sequential completino of a series of small 'deliverables.'

This suggests a new way to complete the last 20 percent of a project: make each step smaller and smaller to offset the decrease in novelty and trudge of small details. By having smaller and smaller steps, you encounter and benefit from the boost associated with completing a task.

> "For finite humans, every moment is an endpoint of sorts, experienced once then done forever. Treating what you do with your time as a sequence of tiny completions means falling into line with how things really are."

Just a lovely sentiment.
